https://leetcode.com/problems/majority-element/description/

Given an array `nums` of size `n`, return _the majority element_.

The majority element is the element that appears more than `⌊n / 2⌋` times. You may assume that the majority element always exists in the array.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [3,2,3]
**Output:** 3

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [2,2,1,1,1,2,2]
**Output:** 2



### Approach : Boyer-Moore Voting Algorithm
https://leetcode.com/problems/majority-element/editorial/?envType=company&envId=facebook&favoriteSlug=facebook-thirty-days

#### Intuition

If we had some way of counting instances of the majority element as +1  
and instances of any other element as −1, summing them would make it  
obvious that the majority element is indeed the majority element.

#### Algorithm

Essentially, what Boyer-Moore does is look for a suffix suf of `nums`  
where suf[0] is the majority element in that suffix. To do this, we  
maintain a count, which is incremented whenever we see an instance of our  
current candidate for majority element and decremented whenever we see  
anything else. Whenever `count` equals 0, we effectively forget about  
everything in `nums` up to the current index and consider the current number  
as the candidate for majority element. It is not immediately obvious why we can  
get away with forgetting prefixes of `nums` - consider the following  
examples (pipes are inserted to separate runs of nonzero `count`).

[7, 7, 5, 7, 5, 1 | 5, 7 | 5, 5, 7, 7 | 7, 7, 7, 7]

Here, the `7` at index 0 is selected to be the first candidate for majority  
element. `count` will eventually reach 0 after index 5 is processed, so the  
`5` at index 6 will be the next candidate. In this case, `7` is the true  
majority element, so by disregarding this prefix, we are ignoring an equal  
number of majority and minority elements - therefore, `7` will still be the  
majority element in the suffix formed by throwing away the first prefix.

[7, 7, 5, 7, 5, 1 | 5, 7 | 5, 5, 7, 7 | **5, 5, 5, 5**]

Now, the majority element is `5` (we changed the last run of the array from  
`7`s to `5`s), but our first candidate is still `7`. In this case, our  
candidate is not the true majority element, but we still cannot discard more  
majority elements than minority elements (this would imply that `count` could  
reach -1 before we reassign `candidate`, which is obviously false).

Therefore, given that it is impossible (in both cases) to discard more  
majority elements than minority elements, we are safe in discarding the  
prefix and attempting to recursively solve the majority element problem for the  
suffix. Eventually, a suffix will be found for which `count` does not hit  
`0`, and the majority element of that suffix will necessarily be the same as  
the majority element of the overall array.

#### Implementation

```python
class Solution(object):
    def majorityElement(self, nums):
        count = 0
        candidate = None

        for num in nums:
            if count == 0:
                candidate = num # 交换 candidate
                count = 1 # count(num) = 1
            else:
                if num == candidate:
                    count += 1  
                else:
                    count -= 1

        return candidate
```

#### Complexity Analysis

- Time complexity : O(n)
    
    Boyer-Moore performs constant work exactly n times, so the algorithm  
    runs in linear time.
    
- Space complexity : O(1)
    
    Boyer-Moore allocates only constant additional memory.